# Subscription events

We have separated transactional and marketing events to make access control management as simple as a switch button. [learn more](../../../integrations/webhook-1/managing-entitlements.md)

Additionally over 20 events are now available to you to track and understand you subscribers lifecycle. We also added attributes attached to the events to ease integration and give you more context and understanding of your subscription system.

All those events are available through our Webhook but can also be broadcasted to your preffered tools with our integrations so you can use them with your CRM or analytics tools.

## Subscription events

The following events were designed to bring you a deep understanding of your customers behavior and help you trigger powerful automations.

### Activation

<table data-header-hidden><thead><tr><th width="274.97548774387195">Event Name</th><th>Description</th><th>Marketing recommendation </th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><strong>Event Name</strong></td><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td><strong>Marketing recommendation</strong> </td></tr><tr><td><code>SUBSCRIPTION_STARTED</code></td><td>A subscription has been purchased. The user becomes a subscriber.</td><td>You could use the opportunity to showcase again ALL benefits included in the subscription that has just been purchased. <br>A purchase is typically motivated by a specific feature included in the subscription (e.g. offline content, HD, ...). The subscriber might not be aware of ALL features included in the newly-acquired subscription, which may reduce their appreciation of its value over time. The more a subscriber taps into the full range of benefits included in its subscription, the less likely they are to churn.</td></tr><tr><td><p><code>TRIAL_STARTED</code></p><p><code>INTRO_OFFER_STARTED</code><br><code>PROMO_CODE_STARTED</code></p></td><td>A free trial or an introductory offer has started.</td><td>You could use the opportunity to showcase again ALL benefits included in the subscription that has just been purchased. <br>A purchase is typically motivated by a specific feature included in the subscription (e.g. offline content, HD, ...). The subscriber might not be aware of ALL features included in the newly-acquired subscription, which may reduce their appreciation of its value over time. The more a subscriber taps into the full range of benefits included in its subscription, the less likely they are to churn.</td></tr><tr><td><p><code>TRIAL_CONVERTED</code></p><p><code>INTRO_OFFER_CONVERTED</code><br><code>PROMO_CODE_CONVERTED</code></p></td><td>The free trial or the introductory offer has been converted to a standard subscription.</td><td>You could let the subscriber know that their promotional offer period has ended and that the subscription will continue as planned. You could also highlight the benefits of higher grades of subscriptions to pave the way for the upsell strategy that may eventually follow.</td></tr><tr><td><p><code>TRIAL_NOT_CONVERTED</code></p><p><code>INTRO_OFFER_NOT_CONVERTED</code><br><code>PROMO_CODE_NOT_CONVERTED</code></p></td><td>The free trial or the introductory offer did not convert to a standard subscription</td><td>You should inform the subscriber that their subscription is now terminated following a discount period.</td></tr></tbody></table>

### Plan change

<table data-header-hidden><thead><tr><th width="308.3333333333333">Event Name</th><th>Description</th><th>Marketing recommendation</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><strong>Event Name</strong></td><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td><strong>Marketing recommendation</strong></td></tr><tr><td><code>SUBSCRIPTION_CROSSGRADED</code></td><td>The subscriber has switched subscriptions within the same grade.</td><td><p>You could stress to the subscriber that his/her new subscription has started this day. <br><br>You could also use this opportunity to highlight again the features he has lost and gained access to by switching subscriptions.</p><p>You should also inform him/her of the new subscription renewal date if relevant.</p></td></tr><tr><td><code>SUBSCRIPTION_DOWNGRADED</code></td><td>The customer has switched to a lower- grade subscription. </td><td><p>You could highlight to the subscriber the advantages lost by switching subscription, paving the way for the upsell strategy that may eventually follow.</p><p><br>You should also inform him/her of the new subscription renewal date if relevant.</p></td></tr><tr><td><code>SUBSCRIPTION_UPGRADED</code></td><td><p>The customer has switched to a higher-grade subscription.</p><p></p></td><td>You could confirm to the subscriber that the upgrade is effective and highlight again all new advantages he has gained access to. <br><br>You should also inform him/her of the new subscription renewal date if relevant.</td></tr></tbody></table>

### Renewal

<table data-header-hidden><thead><tr><th width="306.95744680851067">Event Name</th><th>Description</th><th>Marketing recommendation</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><strong>Event Name</strong></td><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td><strong>Marketing recommendation</strong></td></tr><tr><td><code>SUBSCRIPTION_RENEWED</code></td><td>The subscription has been renewed.</td><td>You could use some of these occurrences to send him a satisfaction survey. <br><br>We recommend you only communicate with active subscribers.</td></tr><tr><td><code>SUBSCRIPTION_DEFERRED</code></td><td><p>The app publisher has decided to extend the subscription period by X days for free, before the subscription cycle resumes as before. </p><p>The date when that period will end can be found in the attribute "defer_end_at".</p></td><td>You could highlight to the subscriber the reason, value, and length of the free access period he.she has been granted, while also stressing the exact date at which the paying subscription will resume. </td></tr></tbody></table>

### Cancellation

<table data-header-hidden><thead><tr><th width="306.16396568160155">Event Name</th><th>Description</th><th>Marketing recommandation</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><strong>Event Name</strong></td><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td><strong>Marketing recommandation</strong></td></tr><tr><td><code>RENEWAL_DISABLED</code></td><td>The customer has canceled the automatic renewal of the subscription.</td><td>You could send a cancellation survey to clearly identify why the user has disabled the auto renewal. Based on his.her feedback and and the information you'll get as part of the event attributes, you could envision sending a promotional offer before the end of the current subscription cycle, in an attempt to retain the subscriber.</td></tr><tr><td><code>RENEWAL_ENABLED</code></td><td>The customer has reactivated the automatic renewal of the subscription.</td><td>You should highlight to the subscriber that the auto renewal has been effectively reactivated and thank him for his.her trust.</td></tr><tr><td><code>SUBSCRIPTION_TERMINATED</code></td><td>The subscription is terminated. The subscriber no longer has an active subscription.</td><td>You should inform the subscriber that his.her subscription is now terminated.</td></tr><tr><td><code>FAMILY_SHARED_REVOKED</code></td><td>The subscription owner has revoked access rights to the account user, through the family sharing settings.</td><td>You should inform the account user that he.she no longer has access to subscriptions benefits because the owner of the subscription has revoked his.her rights.</td></tr></tbody></table>

### Reactivation

<table data-header-hidden><thead><tr><th width="308.6367422489588">Event Name</th><th>Description</th><th>Marketing recommandation</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><strong>Event Name</strong></td><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td><strong>Marketing recommandation</strong></td></tr><tr><td><code>SUBSCRIPTION_REACTIVATED</code></td><td>A subscription that had expired has been reactivated.</td><td>You could thank the user for having reactivated his.her subscription, while reminding him.her of all benefits included in his.her subscription.</td></tr></tbody></table>

### Billing information

<table data-header-hidden><thead><tr><th width="312.3594470046083">Event Name</th><th>Description</th><th>Marketing recommandation</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><strong>Event Name</strong></td><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td><strong>Marketing recommandation</strong></td></tr><tr><td><code>TRANSACTION_PROCESSED</code></td><td>A subscription event caused a money transaction. It could be a positive balance (initial payment, renewal) or negative (refund).</td><td>You can use that data to compute a total spendings by use.<br><br>It is also a precious event to send to your MMP.</td></tr></tbody></table>

### Billing issue

<table data-header-hidden><thead><tr><th width="318.30252100840335">Event Name</th><th width="214">Description</th><th>Marketing recommandation</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><strong>Event Name</strong></td><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td><strong>Marketing recommandation</strong></td></tr><tr><td><code>GRACE_PERIOD_STARTED</code></td><td>A billing issue on the subscriber's end occurred at renewal. <br>The subscriber has entered the grace period. The subscriber still has access to all subscription benefits during the grace period.</td><td>You should stress to the subscriber that a billing issue occurred and invite him to update his.her store settings to avoid losing access rights. <br><br>You should also let him know that access rights will be maintained only for a short period of time.<br><br>You should also frequently remind him.her about the issue during the grace period, until he.she actually acts on it.</td></tr><tr><td><code>GRACE_PERIOD_TERMINATED</code></td><td>The subscriber hasn't resolved the billing issue during the grace period. He.She no longer has access to the subscription benefits. </td><td><p>Inform the subscriber that he.she no longer has access to subscription benefits because the billing issue wasn't fixed in due time. </p><p></p><p>You should let the subscriber know that he.she can still restore his.her subscription (and still benefit from the offer he.she was potentially enjoying) if he.she resolves the billing issue by updating the store settings. </p></td></tr><tr><td><code>ENTERED_BILLING_RETRY</code></td><td>A billing issue on the subscriber's end occurred at renewal. <br><br>The subscription enters the billing retry phase. <br><br>The subscriber  no longer has access to the subscription benefits.</td><td>You should let the subscriber know that he.she can still restore his.her subscription (and still benefit from the offer he was potentially enjoying) if he resolves the billing issue by updating the store settings. </td></tr><tr><td><code>SUBSCRIPTION_CANCELLED_DURING_GRACE_PERIOD</code></td><td>The customer has canceled the subscription during the grace period. The subscription is terminated. The subscriber no longer has an active subscription.</td><td>You could send a cancellation survey to clearly identify why the user has canceled his.her subscription. You should inform the subscriber that his.her subscription is now terminated.</td></tr><tr><td><code>SUBSCRIPTION_RECOVERED_FROM_GRACE_PERIOD</code></td><td>The transaction was successfully completed during the grace period.</td><td>You could thank the customer for having resolved the billing issue and inform him.her that he.she can keep on enjoying his.her subscription. </td></tr><tr><td><code>SUBSCRIPTION_RECOVERED_FROM_BILLING_RETRY</code></td><td>The transaction was successfully completed while in billing retry.</td><td>You could thank the customer for having resolved the billing issue and inform him.her that the subscription has been restored.</td></tr></tbody></table>

### Pause

<table data-header-hidden><thead><tr><th width="317">Event Name</th><th width="217.33333333333331">Description</th><th>Marketing recommandation</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><strong>Event Name</strong></td><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td><strong>Marketing recommandation</strong></td></tr><tr><td><code>SUBSCRIPTION_WILL_PAUSE</code></td><td>The subscriber has set a pause starting on the next renewal date.</td><td>You could confirm to the subscriber that his.her subscription will be paused. <br><br>You could send the subscriber a survey to clearly identify why he.she has planned to pause the subscription. </td></tr><tr><td><code>SUBSCRIPTION_PAUSED</code></td><td>The subscription has now paused. <br>The subscriber  no longer has access to the subscription benefits.</td><td>Let the customer know that the pause he planned has started on this day and that he.she will no longer have access to the subscription benefits during the pause. <br><br>You could remind him.her of the date of the pause.</td></tr><tr><td><code>SUBSCRIPTION_UNPAUSED</code></td><td>The subscription has resumed.</td><td>You could let the customer know that his.her subscription has resumed. <br><br>You could also remind him.her of all benefits included in his.her subscription.</td></tr><tr><td><code>SUBSCRIPTION_CANCELLED_DURING_PAUSE</code></td><td>The subscriber has cancelled the subscription during the subscription pause.</td><td>You could send a cancellation survey to clearly identify why the user has cancelled the subscription. Based on his.her feedback and and the information you'll get as part of the event attributes, you could envision sending a promotional offer before the end of the current subscription cycle, in an attempt to retain the subscriber.</td></tr><tr><td><code>SUBSCRIPTION_WILL_NOT_PAUSE</code></td><td>The customer has cancelled the subscription pause he had set before it even starts.</td><td>You could confirm to the subscriber that his.her subscription will not be paused. <br><br>You could let him.her know how pleased you are that he.she no longer feels the need to pause his.her subscription.</td></tr></tbody></table>

### Transfer

<table data-header-hidden><thead><tr><th width="320.3594470046083">Event Name</th><th>Description</th><th>Marketing recommandation</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><strong>Event Name</strong></td><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td><strong>Marketing recommandation</strong></td></tr><tr><td><code>SUBSCRIPTION_TRANSFERRED</code></td><td>The subscriber has transferred his subscription to another account.The original subscriber no longer has access to the subscription benefits.</td><td>You could confirm to original subscriber that the transfer has been conducted.  <br>You could remind the original subscriber that he.she will no longer have access the subscription benefits on this account.</td></tr><tr><td><code>SUBSCRIPTION_RECEIVED</code></td><td>The user has been transferred a subscription from another account. This user has now access to the subscription benefits.</td><td>You could let the new subscriber know about the transfer and inform him. her that he.she has now access to the subscriptions benefits on his.her account. </td></tr><tr><td>ONE_TIME_PURCHASE_TRANSFERRED</td><td>The buyer has transferred his non-consumable to another account.The original buyer no longer has access to the non-consumable benefits.</td><td>You could confirm to original buyer that the transfer has been conducted.  <br>You could remind the original buyer that he.she will no longer have access the non-consumable benefits on this account.</td></tr><tr><td>ONE_TIME_PURCHASE_RECEIVED</td><td>The user has been transferred a non-consumable from another account. This user has now access to the non-consumable benefits.</td><td>You could let the new buyer know about the transfer and inform him. her that he.she has now access to the non-consumable benefits on his.her account. </td></tr></tbody></table>

### Refund

<table data-header-hidden><thead><tr><th width="318.3333333333333">Event Name</th><th>Description</th><th>Marketing recommandation</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><strong>Event Name</strong></td><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td><strong>Marketing recommandation</strong></td></tr><tr><td><code>SUBSCRIPTION_REFUNDED_REVOKED</code></td><td>The subscriber was refunded for his subscription. The former subscriber no longer has  access to the subscription benefits.</td><td>You should confirm to the subscriber that he.she has been refunded. <br><br>If unclear, you could also send him a refunding survey. <br><br>Based on his.her answers and the info you'll receive as part of the event attributes, you may want to send him a special offer to entice him.he to subscribe again.</td></tr></tbody></table>
